# groove_ai
Grooves, Rhythms, Drums and Music Generated by GPT-3.5 Turbo. An AI powered music learning and playing!!

## Inspiration
Making Rhythms, Drum or Piano Grooves more accessible: Some aspiring musicians might feel intimidated by the costs or time commitments associated with traditional music education. Groove could inspire users by providing a more accessible, affordable, and convenient way to learn and create music, regardless of their background or experience level with the help of Generative AI, powered by GPT-3.5 turbo.

## What it does
* Welcome to our cutting-edge groove.ai app, an revolutionary app that will change the way we experience music! With the help of GPT 3.5 Turbo LLM model (ChatGPT), I was able to create a unique platform that combines the power of rhythms, drums, and music to produce an unparalleled audio experience.

* Our app is designed to seamlessly integrate the complexity of AI-generated sounds with the simplicity of user-friendly interface, enabling anyone to create their own music without any prior experience or expertise. By harnessing the power of LLM's, we have created an app that is not only intuitive but also highly intelligent, capable of adapting to the user's preferences and producing music that is tailored to their individual tastes.

* Whether you are a music enthusiast or a seasoned musician, our app will surely impress you with its ability to generate intricate and diverse rhythms, beats, and melodies. So come and play with the musical innovation of groove.ai and be a part of the future of music-making!

## App Features
*  AI Generated Drum pattern (GPT-3.5 Turbo LLM model).
* Learn Rhythms, Drums, change what is generated by AI and play around it.
* Fine tune the rhythm and download the tune that can sync for you.
* Title, Two line rap, Pattern and BPM are randomly generated by AI.
* Come and learn and play music, rhythms and drums on groove app.
* Download and load into Music software.

## How we built it
* AI Model- GPT 3.5 Turbo LLM.
* Frontend- Vue.js, Typescript, Javascript, HTML, CSS.
* Backend- Supabase edge functions, DB and Postgres Functions.
* Generated Rhythms are stored in Supabase DB and retrieved whenever user loads the app. Stored tables are retrieved via Supabase Functions.
* Users can generate new Rhythms/Drums and it is sent to ChatGPT for generating new tunes.

## Challenges we ran into
* Integrating ChatGPT with Supabase Functions, Tables.
* Coming up with UI that is relevant to music Rhythms.

## Accomplishments that we're proud of
* Completing the solution on a weekend.
* Integrating with Gen AI to give an awesome experience for Musicians and music lovers and learners.

## What we learned
* Supabase.
* Voiceflow.
* GPT-3.5 Turbo.

## What's next for Groove.ai
* Integrating and expand to invoke more tunes and music generated by AI.
* Integrating with Voiceflow chat.

## How to run
* Clone the repo
* npm install
* Configure supabase for creating tables, DB, Postgres functions and edge functions
* replace supabase and openai keys and URL's in code
* npm run dev
